                                                David O'Leary 
                                                     David.oleary174@gmail.com
                                                                 07709512867 
                                                              Github: Dol17480


I am a highly driven junior software developer seeking a new challenge within the tech industry after more than eight years working as a digital journalist and print editor on a range of national and regional news titles. Recently I completed a 16 week computer programming course which has provided me with the skills and knowledge needed to both build and test solid and trustworthy software programs.
Twinning these new digital skills with my previous journalistic deadline-driven attention to detail and proactive approach I feel give me a sound base to move forward and excel in the Irish tech industry. In 2013 I was part of the four-man team that won Team of the Year at the Scottish Press Awards for the Mortonhall Baby Ashes Scandal. 


Employment History 

September 2016 - present: CodeClan - Computer Programming Student

This 16-week intensive course at Scotland’s Digital Skills Academy has provided me with a sound working knowledge of object-oriented programming and Agile software development using a variety of languages such as Ruby, Java and JavaScript. I also have a good understanding of Android Studio, HTML and CSS and frameworks such as Rails and React. Throughout this course I have completed a number of both individual and group assignments building and testing a range of web and mobile apps, all of which are available to view on Github. These projects have also involved setting up databases and persisting said data using SQL and Mongodb.


March 2015 - September 2016: Scotsman and Scotland on Sunday - Assistant News Editor

I was promoted to a project management role assisting in the development of the titles’ content and management of their news teams, whilst also compiling, gathering and proofreading the day’s  and week’s key news events. I offered key specialists guidance on a variety of nationally-important stories whilst also seeking to maximise our digital footprint through better use of social media and online. The position saw me liaise closely with various departments and gain a sound working knowledge of the Atex content management system and Polopoly multi-channel publishing framework.

June 2014 – March 2015: Scotsman - General Reporter

This position involved sourcing and delivering exclusive national and regional news leads on a daily basis. The role demanded clear and concise copy for both print and online publication using Atex and regular updates to breaking and agenda-setting stories such as the Independence Referendum and General Election  through social media. During this time I gained considerable training in online and social media journalism and the tailoring of content for a digital audience.





April 2012 – June 2014: Edinburgh Evening News - Transport Reporter

My daily role involved sourcing and writing  news leads on a daily basis for both print and online with added video content gaining a good working knowledge of Brightcove and Final Cut Pro. As Transport Reporter I took the lead reporting on a number of major stories featuring Edinburgh's trams, the new Queensferry Crossing and the Borders Railway. It was during this time that I won a national press award for our four-man team’s coverage of the Mortonhall Baby Ashes Scandal.

April 2008 – April 2012: Peeblesshire News and Border Telegraph - Senior Reporter 

This  role involved delivering news, sports and web copy, writing features and court reporting using Microsoft Works and Wordpress. I also gained considerable experience working with both central and local government and oversaw the daily updating of the titles’ website’s through their shared content management system.

Education: Graduated September 2007 with a BA Hons in Journalism from  Napier University, Edinburgh.

Miscellaneous: I’m a keen cyclist and regularly take part in long distance endurance rides around Britain and Ireland.